- Hi there.
I'm Miriam and I work at Google.
We're so glad you're here
and that you've chosen a
Google Career Certificate
to move towards your goals.
One important step to
help you meet those goals
is building your career identity.
But first, what exactly
is career identity?
You can think of it as your North Star.
It encompasses who you are
and what you have to offer professionally
and guides you as you navigate
towards your goals and vision.
Today, we'll share activities
to help you explore your career identity
and write your own career
identity statement.
Let's dive in.
Your career identity is the unique value
that you bring to the workforce
based on who you are and
what you have to offer
now and in the future.
It's informed by all of your
life and work experiences
and shaped by your strengths,
motivations, and values.
It's also something you cultivate
based on your direction and goals,
and here's why it's important.
The more you know about who
you are, what makes you thrive,
and where you want to go,
the better equipped you are
to choose a path that aligns
with your strengths, values, and goals.
Plus, employers and colleagues
will have a better understanding
of what you have to offer
and it's good for you.
Research shows that having
a strong career identity
leads to positive outcomes such
as improved job performance,
greater commitment to a meaningful career,
and even enhanced well-being and health.
Remember, no matter what your
life and work experiences are,
we all have value to offer.
Let me start by sharing
a little bit about myself
and how I first started to
develop my career identity.
I've worked at Google
for more than 10 years,
but I discovered facets
of my career identity
in my first role here
as an email customer
support representative
helping business owners solve problems.
I quickly realized how much
I enjoyed working with sales, engineering,
and product management teams
to solve those problems.
I also discovered that I had a talent
for distilling complex ideas
into simple written language
for the customers I supported.
Fast forward to today, I
work in digital marketing,
and my job still depends on
communication and collaboration,
skills that bring me joy.
Over the years, I've moved
from one project to another,
changed jobs, and worked
for different companies,
but these truths about what is core to me
and what I value have
always remained the same.
Make sense?
One of the best ways to
explore your career identity
is to write your own
career identity statement.
We'll start by breaking it
down into three key components
that will act as the building blocks
for creating your own
career identity statement,
your strengths,
your motivations,
your values.
Let's talk about each of
these three components
in more detail.
First up, your strengths.
Your strengths are tasks and
activities that you do well.
They're the skills, knowledge,
and talents you've gained
throughout your life and work experiences.
For example, maybe you're
very detail-oriented
or you're great at building relationships.
Maybe you're amazing at repairing cars
or maybe you've developed
skills like patience, empathy,
and problem-solving
as a result of caring for a family member.
According to Marcus Buckingham,
an expert on strengths
and leadership at work,
"A strength is an activity
that strengthens you."
For something to be a strength,
you must be good at it,
but it also should make you feel stronger,
more capable, and energized.
For me, writing has
always been a strength.
I read Charlotte Bronte's
novel, "Jane Eyre" at age nine
and I fell in love with writing.
I was like, "That girl is me
and I want to write books like this."
I then invested a lot of time
in developing this
skill throughout my life
and it's one that has always energized me,
making it a core pillar
of my career identity.
From strengths, we'll move
to the next key component,
your motivations.
Your motivations stem from
your passions and your purpose.
Knowing what fuels you is so important,
because that's what keeps you going.
Like I mentioned, I am
passionate about storytelling
with the English language.
I can lose myself for hours in writing,
but I don't just enjoy telling stories.
I am also motivated to help others
to express their own truths
through authentic storytelling.
It's a defining aspect of who I am
and thus my career identity.
So now we've covered
strengths and motivations.
Lastly, let's discuss the third
key component, your values.
Your values reflect what's
most important to you.
They guide your approach
to decision-making,
developing relationships,
and overcoming challenges.
You may not always be
aware of your values,
but they are always with you
even if they shift over time.
These are things like integrity,
responsibility, and kindness.
Some of my core values are
efficiency and service to others.
I don't like messes.
When I see a mess, I see people suffering.
My mind goes to, "How
can I help clean this up?
How can I make this more efficient?"
In my first job, I realized
that no one was documenting
how to use the products
Google was developing.
So I decided to build a knowledge base
of common questions and answers
that my team could use
to not have to start
from scratch each time.
Now that we understand the key components,
let's work on building
your own career identity.
To start, all you need
to do is get curious.
Begin by asking yourself
these three questions
about your strengths,
motivations, and values.
"What skills, knowledge,
and talents set me apart?
What fuels and motivates me most?
What values guide me?"
It might be helpful to
pause the video here,
grab a piece of paper or a journal
and spend 10 minutes
reflecting on these questions.
There's no need to overthink it.
Just write what comes to mind.
You can always refine or
expand your answers later.
Once you've answered these questions,
there's more you can do to
dig into your career identity.
For example, assessments
can help you learn more
about your unique skills,
strengths, preferences, and values.
Many of these assessments
are available online
and consist of a series of
short multiple choice questions
focused on you
and immediately produce
your personalized results.
If after this, you still
want to explore more,
you can interview a handful of your peers.
They could be current
or former colleagues,
classmates, or even family and friends.
Choose people who know you well
and who you trust to be
honest and thoughtful.
Ask them questions such as,
"How would you describe
me to someone else?
What stands out about me?
How do I inspire you?"
Remember, there are plenty of other ways
to learn about yourself,
but once you've reached a
point where you're comfortable
and confident that you
understand your strengths,
motivations, and values,
you can bring them together in
a career identity statement.
It should be three or four sentences
that go beyond just listing
your qualifications.
You want to also reveal
your passions and purpose.
Here's a basic template
to help you get started.
"I am a," roles, "with," number of years,
"experience doing," accomplishment.
"My greatest strength is," strength,
"and I have a talent for," strength.
"I am passionate about," motivation,
"and I value," value.
Here's mine as an example.
"I am a content strategist
and product marketer
with over 10 years of
experience helping businesses
use new technologies to drive success.
My greatest strength
is collaborating and driving
efficiencies across teams
and I have a talent for crafting stories
and creating marketing programs
to successfully launch
technology products.
I am passionate about empowering brands
to find and use solutions
that work for them
and helping builders of new technologies
develop even better,
more effective products.
And most importantly, I value having fun
and being collaborative, inclusive,
and authentic while I do it."
Now is another good
time to pause the video
and grab that piece of paper or journal
to start working on your
career identity statement.
Remember, your statement
is a work in progress.
You should revisit and refine it
as you gain new experience
and insights about yourself,
like after you complete a
Google Career Certificate,
for example.
So now that you've written
your career identity statement,
what should you do with it?
Writing your career identity statement
is a powerful way to
add clarity and energy
to all the other career development tools
you carry with you.
You can incorporate parts
of it into your resume,
LinkedIn profile, cover
letters, and elevator pitch.
This will help you clearly
and consistently communicate
what's important to you
and help you stand out from
others in the same field.
It can also guide you
to be more intentional
and purposeful when searching for a job
or choosing a career path.
Exploring and creating a strong
career identity for yourself
is a journey that takes time and effort.
But trust me, it's worth it.
The more you know about
yourself and what you want,
the better choices you'll
make for your career,
and as you continue to grow
and strengthen your career identity,
your North Star will shine even brighter,
moving you towards your goals.
Here's to the next step
in your amazing journey.